Hare Krishna 
Please accept my humble obeisances. 

Please find below is beautiful purport by Srila Prabhupadad on importance of Bhagavada Gita and it's distribution. 


Knowledge is meant for distribution. Although there is already much scientific knowledge, whenever scientists or philosophers awaken to a particular type of knowledge, they try to distribute it throughout the world, for otherwise the knowledge gradually dries up and no one benefits from it. India has the knowledge of Bhagavad-gétä, but unfortunately, for some reason or other, this sublime knowledge of the science of God was not distributed throughout the world, although it is meant for all of human society. Therefore Kåñëa Himself appeared as Çré Caitanya Mahäprabhu and ordered all Indians to take up the cause of distributing the knowledge of Bhagavad-gétä throughout the entire world.
 
yäre dekha, täre kaha 'kåñëa'-upadeça
ämära äjïäya guru haïä tära' ei deça
"Instruct everyone to follow the orders of Lord Çré Kåñëa as they are given in Bhagavad-gétä and Çrémad-Bhägavatam. In this way become a spiritual master and try to liberate everyone in this land." (Cc. Madhya 7.128) 
 
Although India has the sublime knowledge of Bhagavad-gétä, Indians have not done their proper duty of distributing it. Now, therefore, the Kåñëa consciousness movement has been set up to distribute this knowledge as it is, without distortion. Although previously there were attempts to distribute the knowledge of Bhagavad-gétä, these attempts involved distortion and compromise with mundane knowledge. But now the Kåñëa consciousness movement, without mundane compromises, is distributing Bhagavad-gétä as it is, and people are deriving the benefits of awakening to Kåñëa consciousness and becoming devotees of Lord Kåñëa. Therefore the proper distribution of knowledge has begun by which not only will the whole world benefit, but India's glory will be magnified in human society. Kaàsa tried to arrest Kåñëa consciousness within his house (bhojendra-gehe), with the result that Kaàsa, with all his opulences, was later vanquished. Similarly, the real knowledge of Bhagavad-gétä was being choked by unscrupulous Indian leaders, with the result that India's culture, and knowledge of the Supreme were being lost. Now, however, because Kåñëa consciousness is spreading, the proper use of Bhagavad-gétä is being attempted.

SB 10.2.20 Purport
 



​​​All glories to Srila Prabhupada​
